Add 11.1 release notes (#121)
mondoohq/docs: releases/2024-04-22-mondoo-11.1-is-out.md

---
slug: mondoo-11.1-is-out/
title: Mondoo 11.1 is out!
author: Tim Smith
author_title: Mondoo Core Team
author_url: https://github.com/tas50
tags: [release, mondoo]
---

## 🥳 Mondoo 11.1 is out! This release includes Dockerfile scanning, ENV var credentials in inventory files, and more!

Get this release: [Installation Docs](https://mondoo.com/docs/cnspec/) | [Package Downloads](https://releases.mondoo.com/cnspec/) | [Docker Container](https://hub.docker.com/r/mondoo/cnspec)

---

## 🎉 NEW FEATURES

### Dockerfile scanning

> Expose security concerns before they reach production with new Mondoo scanning of Dockerfiles. Run `cnquery shell docker file DIRECTORY_OR_PATH` to inspect a single Dockerfile or find nested Dockerfiles within directories. Using the new `docker.file` resource you can explore the file itself or dive into Dockerfile stages and instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expose security concerns before they reach production with new Mondoo Dockerfile scanning. Run `cnquery shell docker file DIRECTORY_OR_PATH` to inspect a single Dockerfile or find nested Dockerfiles within directories. Using the new `docker.file` resource, you can explore the file itself or dive into Dockerfile stages and instructions.
```

```coffee
cnquery shell docker file Dockerfile
→ loaded configuration from /Users/tsmith/.config/mondoo/mondoo.yml using source default
→ connected to Dockerfile
  ___ _ __   __ _ _   _  ___ _ __ _   _
 / __| '_ \ / _` | | | |/ _ \ '__| | | |
| (__| | | | (_| | |_| |  __/ |  | |_| |
 \___|_| |_|\__, |\__,_|\___|_|   \__, |
  mondoo™      |_|                |___/  interactive shell

cnquery> docker.file.stages{*}
docker.file.stages: [
  0: {
    entrypoint: null
    add: []
    run: [
      0: docker.file.run script="mkdir -p /opt/app"
      1: docker.file.run script="npm install"
    ]
    file: docker.file file.path="Dockerfile" instructions.length=8 stages.length=1
    copy: [
      0: docker.file.copy src=[
        0: "src/package.json"
        1: "src/package-lock.json"
      ] dst="."
    ]
    from: docker.file.from name="" image="node" tag="18.16.0-alpine3.17"
    env: {}
    cmd: docker.file.run script="npm
start"
  }
]
```

> Stay tuned for upcoming Dockerfile policies and exposure within the console!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stay tuned for upcoming Dockerfile policies and Dockerfile security monitoring in the Mondoo Console!
```

## 🧹 IMPROVEMENTS

### Resource updates

#### aws.ec2.instances

> - Improve performance scanning instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve the performance of instance scanning
```
? Is that what this means?

#### aws.ec2.networkacl

- Add `associations` field

#### aws.inspector

- New resource for [Amazon Inspector](https://mondoo.com/docs/mql/resources/aws-pack/aws.inspector/)

#### aws.s3.bucket

- Fix failures fetching ACL grants

#### gcp.project.bigqueryService

- Fix failures querying BigQuery resources

> ### Store credentials in env vars with inventory files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Store credentials in ENV vars with inventory files
```

Supercharge Mondoo scans in your CI pipelines using ENV var credentials in Mondoo inventory files.

Specify an ENV var within your inventory file:

```yaml
spec:
  assets:
    - connections:
        - type: slack
          credentials:
            - type: env
              env: CUSTOM_SLACK_TOKEN
```

Set that ENV var in your CI job and run cnspec as usual:

```bash
export CUSTOM_SLACK_TOKEN="token"
cnquery scan --inventory-file inventory.yml
```

> ### Updated Mondoo AWS Policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Updated Mondoo AWS policy
```

We rewrote the Mondoo AWS Security policy from the ground up with new and expanded queries that match the latest AWS capabilities and risks.

### Improved vulnerability EPSS graphs

> Improved EPSS graphs expose the risk percentile along and include a new easier to read design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Improved EPSS graphs expose the risk percentile and are redesigned for easy reading.
```

![EPSS Graph](/img/releases/2024-04-23-mondoo-11.1-is-out/epss.png)

## 🐛 BUG FIXES AND UPDATES

> - Return the full package version when analysing RPMs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Return the full package version when analyzing RPMs
```
🇺🇸

> - When performing volume/snapshot scanning of XFS volumes scan all non-boot volumes if multiple XFS volumes exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When performing volume/snapshot scanning of XFS volumes, scan all non-boot volumes if multiple XFS volumes exist.
```

- Always close the RPM database after checking packages.
- Fix a race condition in provider shutdown.

> - Renamed Workstation to Development Workstation in the integrations page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Renamed Workstation to Development Workstation on the integrations page.
```
